When it comes to validating vulnerabilities,
there are three commonly used terms in the industry you should know.
Those are false negative,
false positive, and true positive.
A false negative is an instance in which a security tool
intended to detect a particular threat fails to do so.
If there's a fire and smoke everywhere,
but the alarm remain silent,
that's a false negative,
and the same applies in technology.
For example, if your computer is missing several security patches,
but your vulnerability scanner doesn't detect it,
that's a false negative.
A false positive is an alert that incorrectly indicates that a vulnerability is present.
If your fire alarm goes off when there is no smoke or no fire,
that's a false positive,
and the same happens in technology as well.
For example, if your vulnerability scanner detects
a weak encryption algorithm that's being used on the system,
but when you double-check,
that algorithm is already disabled,
that's considered a false positive.
Finally, a true positive is an alert
that rightfully indicates a vulnerability is present.
Finally, if there is a fire and smoke everywhere and the alarm does go off,
that's a true positive,
so it's doing exactly what it should do.
The same applies in technology as well.
For example, if your password is 12345 and the scanner detects that,
hey, you have weak password, it's absolutely right.
That is a true positive.